refactor: clean logs and retention feature flipping (#5677)
ovh/cds: docs/content/docs/components/cdn/_index.md

weight: 3
---

## What's CDN

> CDN is a service dedicated to receive and store CDS's logs. In a near future it will also be able to manage artifacts and cache used by your jobs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CDN is a service dedicated to receive and store CDS's logs. In a near future, it will also be able to manage artifacts and cache used by your jobs. 
```

> CDN stores the list of all known log or artifact items in a Postgres database and communicate with storage backends to store the content of this items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CDN stores the list of all known log or artifact items in a Postgres database and communicates with storage backends to store the contents of those items.
```

> This backends are call units and there are two types of units in CDN:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These backends are call units and there are two types of units in CDN:
```

> * Buffer Unit: to store incoming job's logs and artifact, this units are designed to be fast for read/write operations but with a limited capacity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Buffer unit: To store logs and artifacts of incoming jobs, these units are designed to be fast for read / write operations, but with limited capacity.
```

* Storage Unit: to store complete job's logs and artifact.

> When logs or file are received by CDN, it will first store this items in its buffer. Then when the item is fully received, it will be moved to one of configured storage unit.
> If CDN is setup with multiple storage units, each unit will periodically checks for missing item and sync this items from other units.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the logs or file are received by CDN, it will first store these items in its buffer. Then, when the item is fully received, it will be moved to one of the configured storage units.
If the CDN is configured with multiple storage units, each unit periodically checks for missing items and synchronizes those items from other units.
```

## Configuration

> Like any other CDS service, CDN requires to be authenticated with a consumer. The required scope are Service, Worker and RunExecution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like any other CDS service, CDN requires to be authenticated with a consumer. The required scopes are Service, Worker and RunExecution.
```
